---
title: About
date: "2020-10-22T00:00:00.000Z"
description: "About page."
---

**EPI2ME Labs** maintains a collection of example bioinformatics notebooks for
running analysis in your web browser. Our GitHub repository contains a growing
collection of notebooks on a range of topics from basic quality control to
genome assembly. These are free and open to use by anyone.

EPI2ME Labs extends the JupyterLab notebook framework with a pre-configured
analysis server. The notebooks display Python code needed to run data analysis,
however zero configuration of the code is required. Because of this, the
notebooks can be used both by **students** and **researchers** new to nanopore
sequence data analysis, and more experienced bioinformaticians who are
comfortable working with Python.

The EPI2ME Labs server runs in a [Docker
container](https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container) to provide an
isolated and resettable environment.


## Setting up EPI2ME Labs

EPI2ME Labs notebooks are supported on the GridION Mk1 sequencing platform as
well as any Windows 10, macOS, or Linux desktop. All components are also
released open-source in our [GitHub](https://github.com/epi2me-labs)
repository.

***System requirements for running EPI2ME Labs:***

- Compute requirements: the amount of compute needed for each type of analysis
  is specified in each EPI2ME Labs tutorial.

***Installation quick start***:

Our [Quick Start guide](/quickstart) will help you to get started running a
notebook server and web-based analyses.


## Available notebooks

A complete list of available notebooks can be found by clicking **File**, then
**Open notebook** at the top of this page and then clicking on the GitHub tab.
Enter **epi2me-labs** in the textbox, and make sure the respository
`epi2me-labs/tutorials` is selected.

Alternatively visit our [Index of Notebooks](/nbindex) page to see a complete
listing with descriptions.



## Using notebooks

In their basic form, notebooks provide a platform for running data analysis
code and plotting graphs. 

Notebooks allow the combination of executable code, rich text, images, HTML,
LaTeX and more into a single document enabling the creation of an easy to
follow set of instructions to analyse your data. By extending Google's Colab
environment you can create your own notebooks, and store them in your Google
Drive account. You can easily share your notebooks with others, allowing them
to comment on your notebooks or even edit them. To learn more, see [Overview of
Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/basic_features_overview.ipynb).
To create a new notebook you can use the File menu above, or use the following
link: [create a new Colab
notebook](http://colab.research.google.com/#create=true).

To learn more about the Jupyter project, see
[jupyter.org](https://www.jupyter.org/).


## Further Resources

The following is a collection of examples and resources for using Jupyter
notebooks

- [EPI2ME Labs GitHub repository](https://github.com/epi2me-labs)

